---
date: '2013-05-03'
language: en
original_url: 'https://quora.com/What-is-object-oriented-ontology/answer/Clément-Renaud'
source: quora
title: 'What is object-oriented ontology?'
---

Not a specialist, but I will define OOO as an attempt to bring back
objects (things) into the philosophical discussion. In the classical
western epistemology and ontology so far, most attention has been given
to human as a being, life as living beings, rather than beings within
their *milieu* which include non-living beings. 
 
As other answers show, it seems to be quite disruptive and unpleasant
for many people, as  "things " have always been considered ontologically
anecdotal and with little or no interest for social and human sciences. 
 
Main problem for OOO to be accepted is  : objects are not part of the
classic field of philosophy which deals about life and death. Objects
doesn 't actually live and die, which make them sort of an ontological
junk, a second-hand subject with no proper life. 
 
Though, ambient materialism and the arrival of  "almost living " objects
like cells, computers and all coming generation of robots make this
object-oriented approach quite legitimate in a sense. It is time to do
this difficult part of the job, i.e. define our relationships with other
non-living being. Imagine for instance the contribution of an
ontological research about oil and its objects. Sounds interesting to me
at least. 
 
Now there are serious guys like Simondon, Stiegler and even Badiou (read
*Le Siècle*) who gives some real perspective to a practice like OOO in
the development  of recent philosophy. Plus one century of contribution
from engineering fields to any social sciences. 
 
Finally, this ontological missing link between objects and people is not
about life/death but about production, more exactly transformation. My
guess is there is not much to find on this topic in Western philosophy. 
 
Good news is : changes and mutations are exactly the core topic of
centuries of Asian and specifically Chinese philosophy. Funny thing, the
Chinese are also the one producing all this made-in-china junk that
everybody in the West despise as  "ontologically harmful " for the
world, when everybody use it everyday. 
 
Maybe  "philosophers " should now try to learn German or French *and*
Chinese, so we can bring into context some missing elements and learn
from our failures. 
 
This will need to take first a major step : recognize the (partial)
failure of this Western philosophical model (read Sloterdijk on this)
and be humble by accepting that all those great writers from the
 "Continent " are just one side of an ongoing discussion. 
 
I am not a philosopher at all but I think it is about time to put all
our junk and stuff on the table and see the role it plays in our
 "human " world - and why the earth is all fucked up now. 
 
The idea of a philosophy of  "spoon, chairs, etc " may sound imperfect
and absurd to people who think that philosophy is a book thing. 
 
Personally, I think OOO still a timid answer to an urgent issue that is
actually the real challenge of philosophy : to survive.
