---
date: '2018-12-11'
language: fr
original_url: 'https://quora.com/Why-have-the-French-turned-so-solidly-and-violently-against-their-democratically-elected-President-Emmanuel-Macron-in-such-a-short-period-of-time/answer/Clément-Renaud'
source: quora
title: |
    Why have the French turned so solidly and violently against their
    democratically elected President, Emmanuel Macron, in such a short
    period of time?
---

Macron's political strategy was to personify the young French investment
banker that knows how to make money. That is how he wanted to be
perceived by the European and global investing world, so he could direct
more money to come to France and boost the economy. His communication
plan of making France a "*Startup Nation*"[ [1 ]](#HmGxE) actually
worked very well during the first two years.

The problem is, that was not exactly what many French people wanted to
see from their president, especially at a time where the struggle to
make ends meet is very real at so many level of the society. The persona
Macron created for himself attracted a lot of hate inside France. The
announcement of a new fuel tax makes things break loose[ [2 ]](#ERUJz).

Looking back, we can see three main political reasons that have made the
situation so explosive for Macron.

First. Macron's election was the results of the self-destruction of the
two main traditional parties in recent years. Sarkozy and Hollande have
destroyed each of their parties for different reasons, leaving a window
of opportunity for some 3rd part to get in. Once in a while, this
happens in French politics and centrists like Macron will get a chance.
Giscard was elected the same way in 1974. This is usually quite an easy
shot as French people are not so encline to vote for far-right or
far-left --- at least in the past. Macron got a political boulevard
towards victory but for electors, Macron was really not a first choice.
Most people chose him by default or against the others parties, which
gave him a very weak mandate to start with.

Second. Despite not having a real plebiscite, Macron decided to make his
presidency all about himself - to contrast with Hollande who was almost
invisible. He surrounded himself with lots of communication consultants
to work out the image of a strongman. Problem is most consultants
apparently understood better the international audience than the French.
They designed a figure that pleased foreign media a lot but was totally
unfit to what French people needed. Between public apparitions abroad,
Macron appears repeatedly lecturing poor people about money management,
education and even job search[ [3 ]](#TaPep). Actually he even lectured
foreign presidents[ [4 ]](#ycmWS). When you are weak, behaving like an
a * *hole is not a very clever option.

Third. Problems of poverty in France are real, and have been getting
worst for a long time. Politicians have avoided to look at them because
there is no media gratification here --- also poor people usually vote
less and not for them. Now some people are very angry and need someone
to blame. In the actual 5th Republic of France, the function of prime
minister has been designed so, when problems arise, he can be sacrificed
without affecting the stability of the state. Problem is Macron decided
to shortcut this design to expose himself more, making his prime
minister a second role. As a result, he is now the central target.

Of course, the violence of the protests can not be attributed to Macron
himself. Lots of rage have been building up over the last decades all
over Europe. Macron is the expression of the narrow view of European
leaders that still think that securing investments is a sufficient
political project. That is why the protests are also directed towards
the EU and more generally a model of society that has become toxic in so
many regards.

To me, one of the best slogan that emerged from recent demonstrations in
France was : *" End of the month, end of the planet : it's the same
battle !" .* As this protests prove explicitly, discussions about
poverty (fuel) can not be separated from discussions about natural
resources (oil). Ultimately we will have to figure out what sort of
capital we want to fight for. Nation-states and their presidents will
then appear for what they are : a construction from the past, unfit for
the needs of our world today.

Footnotes

[ [1 ]](#cite-HmGxE)[Macron Vowed to Make France a 'Start-Up Nation.' Is
It Getting
There?](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/23/business/emmanuel-macron-france-technology.html)

[ [2 ]](#cite-ERUJz)[Clément Renaud 's answer to Why are French people
protesting so massively? Is it only for the fuel tax or there is more
behind
it?](http://quora.com/Why-are-French-people-protesting-so-massively-Is-it-only-for-the-fuel-tax-or-there-is-more-behind-it/answer/Cl%C3%A9ment-Renaud)

[ [3 ]](#cite-TaPep)[Macron under fire for telling jobseeker to  'cross
the street ' to get
work](https://www.france24.com/en/20180917-macron-france-under-fire-telling-jobseeker-cross-street-get-work-unemployment)

[ [4 ]](#cite-ycmWS)[Nationalism is a betrayal of patriotism: Macron
lectures
Trump](https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/europe/108523416/nationalism-is-a-betrayal-of-patriotism-macron-lectures-trump)
