---
date: '2018-10-20'
language: fr
original_url: 'https://quora.com/What-fundamental-misunderstandings-does-the-Chinese-leadership-have-about-western-governments-and-western-foreign-policy/answer/Cl√©ment-Renaud'
source: quora
title: |
    What fundamental misunderstandings does the Chinese leadership have
    about western governments and western foreign policy?
---

Chinese leadership understand very well how Western government works,
but seem to have deeply misjudged what is currently happening in the
West.

They spent decades learning the inner workings of global politics and
law from the most prestigious schools and networks in the world but they
failed to see how much out of touch it was, and how much people wanted
to take it down.

Hate and distrust against these institutions have grown in Western
democracies, to the point where they are almost becoming irrelevant.

Imagine you spend years learning English at university to become good
friend with this powerful guy at Harvard. Suddenly, time has passed and
- o surprise - he got replaced by this other guy after an election. The
newly elected guy is part of a gang that follows him everywhere. He is
violent, rude and want to fight all the time. He did not even go to high
school. You have heard his name only once a few years ago, but never
talked to him before. He does not like you.

In US and Europe, the leadership style is shifting from a moderate,
educated and business-oriented globalism, to an aggressive,
anti-institutional and strong-handed nationalism. The priority is not
business and opulence anymore, it is strength and order.

The Chinese leadership seems underprepared to deal with the new
generation of Western (fascist) leaders to come - hint : some are in
power already. Beijing seems to have quite a poor understanding of how
these trends are unfolding in the population and how far this new
leaders will go. Their newly-acquired Western education is at their
disadvantage here. One elected, the new guys do not really want business
achievements, they want military victories. They see war as an
opportunity and international trade as a risk. You can not buy out this
people with money because they don 't really care about it. They want to
win big time and make noise, not to be rich and quiet like the old
technocrats before.

How Beijing will accommodate with this new trend remains to be seen, but
it will require a shift in their approach for sure. Especially, it will
require them to understand better how they can connect not only to
leaders, but to the Western population itself as it is the only thing
that may assure them peace.
