---
date: '2018-10-24'
language: en
original_url: 'https://quora.com/What-does-spending-20bn-on-the-worlds-longest-bridge-say-about-the-strength-of-Chinas-economy/answer/Clément-Renaud'
source: quora
title: |
    What does spending  $20bn on the world 's longest bridge say about the
    strength of China 's economy?
---

There is this very interesting book by French writer Georges Bataille
called the Accursed Share.

Bataille published this treaty of general economy after the 2nd World
War. He explains how economists should look at the ways countries manage
the excess they generate. Every actor in the economy has some excess of
what he called "energy" to his disposal and he will chose to waste at
least a part of it. By looking at this "accursed share", you can
understand its economics and political motivations.

[The Accursed Share -
Wikipedia](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Accursed_Share)

The Macau-Zhuhai Bridge is a sacrifice of resources to celebrate the
power of the empire. In Chinese, politics is the art of managing flows,
starting with water (政治) . Every dynasty has been doing giant
infrastructure projects like this, and they became part of their
historical legacy.

The bridge says nothing about China's economy and everything about
Chinese politics projecting power. They can waste that money just like
that if they wish. The planners didn 't even know if the bridge will go
to Shenzhen or Hong Kong when they started building it.

Hong Kong felt isolated on its own little island? Now there is a bridge.
And also a super-fast train direct to Guangzhou that just opened.
Everything is a 45 min of reach in the delta now. Hong Kong is becoming
such a small piece of the puzzle.

People look at the bridge like the fools who look at the finger that
points to the moon. The bridge is the mark of the emperor, and it is
pointing towards a much bigger ambition : the integration of the Pearl
River Delta region into one single giant urban hub.
