---
date: '2018-08-25'
language: fr
original_url: 'https://quora.com/What-was-the-importance-of-the-Rhone-Valley/answer/Clément-Renaud'
source: quora
title: 'What was the importance of the Rhone Valley?'
---

The Rhône takes his source in one of the most prosperous part of Europe
: the Leman lake. On the border of Switzerland and France, its water is
globally famous (Evian) and it is home for some of the richest company
and organisations in the world (Olympic Committee, Wipo, Nestle, etc).

From Geneva, the Rhône goes down the Alps to cross what was the kingdom
of Savoy, gatekeepers of the Alps. The House of Savoy was home to
powerful merchants that ruled over trade in the Alps. If you continue
down the Rhône, you arrive in Lyon. Located at the convergence of
another river (the Saône), it was a major trade center already during
the Roman empire and became one of the epicenter of European
Renaissance.

The Rhône continues down South through the Drôme, where some of the most
delicious fruits and delicacies of France are produced, until Avignon
where Catholic popes seat for more than five centuries. Here, the Rhône
enters the beautiful Provence before ending up in the Mediterranean Sea
close to one of the oldest and biggest port in Europe : Marseilles.

As you see, many of these territories have been places of great wealth
and power across the ages of Europe. Rhone was the link between all
them. Until today, boats still navigates from the Mediterranean sea to
Lyon and connections over the Alps are a key component of the economics
of the region.

The rhone Valley around Lyon itself hosted various industrial clusters,
from printing industry in the 16th century, to silk and textile
manufacturing, becoming today the main chemical and biotech center in
France. Until today, it still one of the richest region in Europe.
