---
date: '2018-08-22'
language: en
original_url: 'https://quora.com/Is-China-an-anti-Muslim-country/answer/Cl√©ment-Renaud'
source: quora
title: 'Is China an anti-Muslim country?'
---

China as a country is not against any religion particularly. Its people
practice all kind of religion, including Islam that has been around for
centuries. Part of traditional cuisine in Beijing is Halal for that
reason (Hui cuisine).

The country is ruled by the Chinese communist party that has a long
tradition of opposing religious groups of all kind. No religious
activity is tolerated without reviews and approval from the local
government. Therefore, Christians, Muslims and Buddhists need to refer
to instances of the government regarding the scope and content of their
cult.

If you talk to Chinese people of Han ethnicity (the majority of Chinese)
living in big cities, you will find out that many are blatantly racist
against people from Xinjiang - the region in China with the biggest
Muslim population. As a French, I found it quite similar to the existing
racism towards people from Northern Africa you can find in France.
People call them thieves, crooks and accuse them of the worst crimes
without any basis, mostly uncontrolled fear supported by newspaper
headlines business. The main difference with France is that I have never
heard any Chinese, even the worst racist, refer to the people in
Xinjiang by their faith. Faith is not just that big an issue in China.
It may be changing slowly, but there is no religious framing of people
like in the West. So I will say no, people in China are not anti Islam
per se.
