---
title: "Chinese highlights at the London Olympics"
original_url: https://futurechallenges.org/local/chinese-highlights-at-the-london-olympics/
language: en
source: Future Challenges
---

Written by [Clément
Renaud](https://futurechallenges.org/local/author/clement/ "Posts by Clément Renaud")
on September 22, 2012. [](/local/lead_article/ "Read all posts in ") on
[Asia](https://futurechallenges.org/local/region/asia/),
[China](https://futurechallenges.org/local/region/china/).

::: {.post_image}
![CHINA 100819 10104-SmithWinsGold 27th CISM World Military Wrestling
Championships Army Family Morale Welfare Recreation
Command](https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/china-olympics-240x180.jpg){.size-auto
.wp-post-image width="240" height="180"}
:::

::: {.content .clearfix}
After the Olympic euphoria, London's gigantic show has left us with
mixed memories of well-rehearsed glorified races, gold medals and tears.
Flags, fireworks and red sightseeing buses accompanied millions of
spectators worldwide during the whole summer. Yet these fierce symbols
of London's Olympics also share another pecularity : they are all [Made
in
China](http://www.ministryoftofu.com/2012/08/london-olympic-games-made-in-china/).
Even the gear of the US team was produced in factories in South China
which caused [a
public outcry](http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2012/07/17/vote-should-u-s-olympic-team-trash-its-in-made-in-china-uniforms/)
in the States. With our world becoming global, it's still very painful
to deal with all the contradictions involved in welcoming the previous
Olympic host to the daily landscape. Serial medal-winner China has now
carved out its space on the sports fields, then has also been in the eye
of the Olympic media storm. So let's recap on the highlights of the
London Olympics in China.

::: {#attachment_21504 .wp-caption .alignnone style="width: 650px"}
[![U.S. Army World Class Athlete Program wrestler Sgt. Iris Smith
(right) defeats China\'s Lijun Yang 1-1, 0-1, 3-0 en route to winning
the gold medal in the women\'s 72-kilogram/158.5-pound freestyle
division Aug. 14 at the 27th World Military Wrestling Championships in
Lahti, Finland. Photo by Dirk De Vos, Conseil International du Sport
Militaire Public
Affairs](http://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/china-olympics.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-21504 width="640" height="393"
sizes="(max-width: 640px) 100vw, 640px"
srcset="https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/xchina-olympics.jpg.pagespeed.ic.so7Qv6qYk5.jpg 640w, https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/china-olympics-240x147.jpg 240w"}](http://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/china-olympics.jpg)

Iris Smith (right) defeats China\'s Lijun Yang during the women\'s 27th
World Military Wrestling Championships - Photo by Dirk De Vos, Conseil
International du Sport Militaire, Public Affairs \| CC -2.0
:::

**The Opening Ceremony**
------------------------

In complete opposition to the vision of[Zhang
Yimou](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhang_Yimou)in Bejing four years
ago, Danny Boyle's performance baffled most of the Chinese audience.
According to
some [comments](http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/jul/27/olympics-opening-ceremony-view-from-abroad)
on Chinese Internet , it was  *"The  most rock 'n roll opening ceremony
ever"* while  others complained about *"how cheap"* it was. The Chinese
artist [Ai Weiwei](http://www.pbs.org/art21/artists/ai-weiwei) in a
recent
[paper](http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/jul/28/olympic-opening-ceremony-ai-weiwei-review)
for *The Guardian* pointed out that:*"the show was about Great Britain;
it didn't pretend to have global appeal."* Indeed, Boyle's emphasis on
the UK's greatest talents and characters struck out in a completely
different direction to China's massive performance in 2008.

*"Offensive noise pollution and a monarchical mentality have been
revived as a vaudeville variety show. It was a phony scene of cultural
prosperity, one that runs counter to reality."* These are not the words
of some [angry British
journalist](http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/iainmartin1/100173270/the-olympic-opening-ceremony-started-well-and-then-got-creepy/)
after watching London's *[Isles of
Wonder](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2012_Summer_Olympics_Opening_Ceremony)*.
They were in fact penned by Ai Weiwei in 2008 in his
[blogpost](http://mitpress.typepad.com/mitpresslog/2012/07/ai-weiwei-on-the-2008-olympics-opening-ceremony.html)
about the Beijing opening ceremony, just after he
[resigned](http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/07/olympics2008.china)
from his role as lead designer of the [Bird
Nest](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beijing_National_Stadium) -- the
Beijing National Stadium. Shows on such an immoderate scale will
inevitably raise a strange mix of political disgust and terrible
fascination that could be expressed with almost similar words.

**Evil Foreign Media vs Horrible Chinese Newspapers**
-----------------------------------------------------

If the Olympics are the time for athletes to show off their skills, they
are also a moment for journalists to do their very best. Editorial
track-and-field is also a full-time discipline where all opponents
compete on the global stage to dollop out the right amount of surprises
at the right time. The controversy about the performance of Ye Shiwen,
the Chinese teenage swimming prodigy, was a great occasion for a round
of  "word wrestling". After her second gold medal in a row, journalists
started to echo the US coach's "worries",
[asking](http://www.guardian.co.uk/sport/2012/jul/31/ye-shiwen-200m-medley-gold)
her if she really did take dope (note here the interesting method of
investigation). The Chinese press agency immediately riposted with an
[article](http://www.bj.xinhuanet.com/zgws/2012-08/06/c_112634400.htm)
wondering why on earth "foreign" journalists ask this only about a 17
year-old Chinese woman when there have been so many other athletes
winning two or three gold medals. Seeing Chinese official newspapers
barking about how "Great China" is being insulted by foreign journalists
is not surprising, but it always leads to long and sterile debates
online where exacerbated nationalism always finally wins the day over
the [bitter humor of Chinese
netizens](http://www.chinasmack.com/2012/stories/ye-shiwens-london-olympic-gold-questioned-chinese-reactions.html)
and their reflections on topics like gruelling training programs for
children in China.

The other great drama in China has been the injury of Liu Xiang, the
young 110-meter hurdles world champion during his first-round heats.
Already injured during the Beijing Olympics, he was one of the very few
representing China in the track-and-field disciplines. When the Chinese
commentator saw him on the ground, he just broke into tears calling for
some justice. (A moving reaction from this commentator that should
surely earn him an award for his dedication to sports coverage, as well
as for his commitment to ham acting). Indeed, few days after [China
Central TV](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China_Central_Television)'s
Olympic tearful commentary, it was admitted in the columns of the
Oriental Guardian that the whole thing has been
[scripted](http://edition.cnn.com/2012/08/23/world/asia/china-olympics-liu-hurdler-cctv/index.html)
hours before the drama when they first learnt about the injury. Once
again, millions of Chinese netizens let flow their hate against the big
media setup in which we all live.

**When financial predictions turn out right**
---------------------------------------------

Another well-known sport that always causes tension is the famous sport
of predicting the medals count. Here again, China has
[corrected](http://english.people.com.cn/90779/7888395.html) their first
strategy, lowering their predictions just before the event. This
wouldn't have occurred if they had been using the rigorous science of
[statistics](http://theconversation.edu.au/olympics-medal-count-predictions-versus-reality-8814)
to forecast the numbers of medals. In this field, the winner is the
famous investment firm [Goldman
Sachs](http://www.businessinsider.com/goldman-sachs-absolutely-nailed-its-prediction-for-great-britains-medal-haul-2012-8).
In their [preliminary
report](http://www.goldmansachs.com/our-thinking/topics/global-economic-outlook/olympics-and-economics-.pdf)
about the  Olympic's financial impact, analysts José Ursúa and Kamakshya
Trivedi actually cooked up an algorithm based on previous Olympic
performances and economic growth to second guess the number of medals,
successfully for many countries, it turns out.

In 2008 Ai Weiwei told the German magazine 
[Spiegel](http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/spiegel-interview-with-chinese-artist-ai-weiwei-the-olympics-are-a-propaganda-show-a-531883.html)
that, *"The Olympics are now a propaganda show"* that has been
*"beholden to the wishes of various commercial operations, which in turn
shape our understanding of the event and of the world"*. Indeed, its
programmatic character makes it one of the most suspenseful  -- and
unsurprising!! --  spectacles in the world.
