---
title: "When war becomes a closet to hide political skeletons"
original_url: https://futurechallenges.org/local/when-war-becomes-a-closet-to-hide-political-skeletons/
language: en
source: Future Challenges
---

Written by [Clément
Renaud](https://futurechallenges.org/local/author/clement/ "Posts by Clément Renaud")
on October 13, 2012. Published in [War -
peace](/local/lead_article/war-peace "Read all posts in War - peace") on
[Asia](https://futurechallenges.org/local/region/asia/),
[China](https://futurechallenges.org/local/region/china/).

::: {.post_image}
![](https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/japan28-2-240x180.png){.size-auto
.wp-post-image width="240" height="180"}
:::

::: {.content .clearfix}
The recent tensions between China and Japan about possession of the
[Diaoyu Islands](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Senkaku_Islands) have led
to a wave of anti-Japanese protests throughout China. This time official
TV and newspapers have crossed a new line, implying that China would now
be ready for a war if the dispute is protracted. Does the Chinese
Government really care that much about these little islands or is it all
about keeping the media and the population busy and far from the rampant
crisis?

A good [joke
on](http://shanghaiist.com/2012/09/24/a_joke_currently_making_the_rounds.php)
this is doing the rounds on the Chinese website Sino Weibo:

::: {style="padding: 0 25px;font-family: serif;font-size: 11px"}
> A government official says to his secretary, *"What Japanese products
> do I have on me? Please run a check for me."*
>
>  After a while the secretary comes in and reports : *"Check complete.
> Not a single item. Your car is from Germany, your watch is from
> Switzerland, your clothes are from France, your mobile phone is Apple,
> your child is in the United States, your property is in Australia, and
> your bank account is in Hong Kong. And your mistresses --- they're all
> made in China."*
>
> *"Great,"* said the official, *"Then let's unite the people and let's
> all boycott Japanese products!"*
:::

**Is the Cultural Revolution back?**
------------------------------------

It's quite a surprise to turn on the TV in China and find out that it's
currently broadcasting images of  the island protests. Even during the
highest peak of the Arab Spring, the national
channel [CCTV](http://english.cntv.cn/01/index.shtml) didn't really show
the public demonstrations. Add to this the fact that any kind
of [protest in China](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protests_of_Wukan) is
usually carefully avoided or muffled  by media and  shut down by
soldiers and tanks. So it's strange to see this sudden resurgence of
"public interest" and people screaming with banners in the streets.
There's no real important change to be detected though! The only two men
who have tried to sneak into a protest with a banner saying: *"Freedom,
Democracy, Human Rights"* [were
 arrested](http://www.canyu.org/n59513c6.aspx) in
[Shenzhen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shenzhen) on 16^th^ Sep, as
reported by the Chinese NGO Canyu.

For some days, the media had been
[claiming](http://shanghaiist.com/2012/09/18/baidu-diaoyu-islands.php)
that the *"Diaoyu Islands belong to China",* subscribing to the feeble
evidence and arguments put forward by [Chinese vice-foreign
minister](http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2012-09/21/content_15772310.htm)
Fu Ying. Then, an anti-Japanese fever led by [Chinese Communist Party
 youth
organizations](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Young_Pioneers_of_China)
started to [hit the
streets](http://www.rightnow.io/breaking-news/china_bn_1347705327458.html)
in the whole country. Shouting out slogans that *"China won't give way
to Japanese devils",* the first target to bear the brunt was the
greatest symbol of industrial competition:-***cars***. Also directed by
slogans straight from [the Little Red
Book](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quotations_from_Chairman_Mao),
protesters burnt Toyotas and
Hondas, [assaulting](http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2012/09/23/soul-searching-in-china-over-man-beaten-senseless-by-anti-japanese-protestors/?mod=WSJBlog)
*those "traitors"* who were actually driving Japanese cars. Scared by
all this agitation, car  factories quickly sent their citizens back to
Japan, creating an unprecedented climate of tension between the two
countries. *"Protesters even carried images of Mao, who died in 1976"*
as Qi Ge the Shanghai writer wrote in [Foreign
Policy](http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/09/21/china_s_brainwashed_youth). A
scary [aftertaste](http://www.flickr.com/photos/7141213@N04/8002418755/)
of the  [Cultural
Revolution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_Revolution) was
floating in the air, with the
quiet[approbation](http://www.flickr.com/photos/changshanotes/sets/72157631541229093/with/7988496479/)
of the police.

::: {.wp-caption .aligncenter style="width: 420px"}
![Guys standing to warry people about protests against Japanase in Xian-
Translation by Minsitry of
Tofu](http://www.ministryoftofu.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/japan28-2.png){width="410"
height="569"}

This message was posted online and received massive approval with 71,073
shares and 10,815 comments before it was finally deleted by censors --
Translation by the Ministry of Tofu -- CC 3.0 2012
:::

**Scheduling a war to fit the Chinese Communist Party** political agenda
------------------------------------------------------------------------

All this agitation was extraordinarily well-timed to fit the political
agenda of the CCP for the month of October 2012. The [new
president](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xi_Jinping) Xi Jinping, who will
enter his new function this year,
mysteriously [disappeared](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/9545191/Xi-Jinping-Chinas-next-leader-ends-14-day-long-vanishing-act-with-visit-to-farm-school.html)
for fourteen days, leaving the media with lots of questions about his
forthcoming succession. At the same time, the  last decade's worst
political scandal in China was peaking with the
recent [purge](http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/sep/28/disgraced-chinese-politician-bo-xilai)
of former top official [Bo
Xilai](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bo_Xilai). For months,
[enormous scandals](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/9069221/Chinese-police-chief-tried-to-claim-asylum-at-US-embassy.html)
and repetitive [trials](http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/sep/28/bo-xilai-trial-neil-heywood-murder)
have parted the curtain on CCP's internal attempts to [settle old
scores](http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/03/29/the_revenge_of_wen_jiabao)dating
from the Cultural Revolution. Stuck in those murky waters, the Chinese
Government was in bad need of a good media alibi to divert attention
from its internal affairs. Playing the well-known card of
"Japan rivalry" offered a convenient outcome. Indeed, even if commercial
and diplomatic exchanges between both countries have [significantly
 increased](http://www.mofa.go.jp/region/asia-paci/china/joint0805.html)during
the past few years, many sensitive issues are still looming over their
relationship.

The main cause of Chinese resentment towards Japan goes back to
unresolved memories of the Second World War. During that time ,
horrible [war crimes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanking_Massacre)
and [chemical experiments](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_731) on the
 population were  committed by the Japanese army of occupation. Since
the tragedy of Hiroshima and the withdrawal of all troops from China,
the Japanese government  has never publicly acknowledged these crimes
and is still held accountable by the Chinese people. What's worse is
that the Emperor of Japan himself goes every year to the [Yakusuni
Shrine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yasukuni_Shrine#Enshrinement_of_war_criminals)
to honor the memory of Japan's greatest generals, including several
 "Class A"  [war
criminals](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Controversies_surrounding_Yasukuni_Shrine#War_criminals).
As a Frenchman myself, I can hardly imagine a peace situation in Europe
where  the German premier still celebrated  "Nazi Generals" every year.

 

[![Anti-China protest in Shibuya by Jacob
Ehnmark](http://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/japanese_protests.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-22505 width="600" height="466"
sizes="(max-width: 600px) 100vw, 600px"
srcset="https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/xjapanese_protests.jpg.pagespeed.ic.W9ps5hkHw2.jpg 1000w, https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/xjapanese_protests-231x180.jpg.pagespeed.ic.RNOoz-nBSj.jpg 231w, https://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/japanese_protests-643x500.jpg 643w"}](http://futurechallenges.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/japanese_protests.jpg)

 

**The majority of Chinese call for peace**
------------------------------------------

While all national and international media were focused on the
 protesters' violence, millions of Chinese people were [calling  for
 peace](http://www.ministryoftofu.com/2012/09/on-weibo-japanophobic-mobsters-are-far-from-the-majority/)
online. In an [episode](http://youtu.be/nPhTa1JFSZk) of the *Al Jazeera*
show, [*the Stream*](http://stream.aljazeera.com/)*,* some active
figures of the Chinese Internet explained how the reactions to the
protests on Chinese social media has been overwhelming, with millions of
tweets tagged with *"love the country, but stay rational".* Even after
the keywords *"anti-Japan"* and *"revolt"* [were
blocked](http://chinadigitaltimes.net/2012/09/sensitive-words-anti-japan-protests-2/)
from Chinese social networks to prevent any counter-government opinion
from spreading, there were still millions of people begging for an end
to all this nonsense and any further toll of political victims.
