---
date: '2013-01-15'
source: quora
title: |
    Cl√©ment Renaud\'s answer to What is the difference between \'ontology\'
    and \'epistemology\'? - Quora
---

Originally Answered: [Is there a difference between ontology and
epistemology?](http://quora.com/Is-there-a-difference-between-ontology-and-epistemology?no_redirect=1)

Ontology and epistemology are both important elements of the philosophy
of knowledge. If they often overlap, they have clear distinction :
epistemology is about *the way we know* things when ontology is about
*what things are*.

Epistemology is a field of science that tends to describe the many
approaches we can chose to understand our world. It is by definition the
science of knowledge and consequently is often understood as a
meta-science : the science of defining what is the \"scientific way\".
Mostly, it studies the fundamental choices or givens you take into
account when you attempt to know something.

For example, cybernetics use the model of a system as an epistemological
approach to explain facts and phenomenons. Derived from it, science
today use widely the network model as a premise to understand various
things, for instance cities. When we say: *\"Ok, let\'s try to
understand the structure of modern cities as a network\"* this is
epistemology in practice - to chose a bias.

Then start the ontological debate : *\"But modern cities* ***are***
*actually structured as networks !\"* Now that is it : we are all set up
for a boring egg and chicken debate, one saying : *\"It* is *like
this\"* and the other saying *\"It is just because you look at it that
way\".* This happens all the time.

Ontology is about describing things and their relationships to answer
the question *\"What is it?\"* while epistemology\'s personal concern is
to investigate the ways that leads you to think that.

Imagine the ontology saying \"*This* is *that*\", then the epistemology
will answer : *\"How can you be so sure of* what *it is if you don\'t
even know* how *you know it?\"*

Let\'s take a famous quote from Wittgenstein\'s *Tractatus
Logico-Philosophicus* : *\"The world is the totality of facts, not of
things\" .*This is an ontological assertion - it challenges the nature
of the world (*what* it is) - then it leads us to an epistemological
consideration - to reconsider *how* we have looked at the world before.

That makes a difference, doesn\'t it?

Actually, ontology at some extremes can be regarded as a particular
epistemological posture. After all, ontology implies that you first
accept that things can \"be\", i.e. can be defined by their beings. Even
if it seems obvious, many languages don\'t have such definitive verb
about the nature of things.

You could absolutely oppose to this idea in saying that things are fully
made of contingency, that context prevails, or that things exist in your
personal experience (as W. James said in its radical empiricism). Then,
ontology will become like a pointless joke.

So finally, it seems like the overlap of those 2 questions are in fact
the origin of metaphysics. The question: *\"Are things really like this
or is that just the way I see them?\"* will always be a fruitful one.

Personally, I have sometimes the feeling that we are in a very
\"ontological\" period where people loves to define things very
precisely using \"data\" as an epistemological alibi. Some place, some
time, it should be some other way to know our world and then things
could get different. That is usually why people come to ask question
like yours - and why others try to answer it :)
