---
date: '2013-01-16'
source: quora
title: |
    Clément Renaud\'s answer to Which language learning program is more
    effective: Pimsleur or Rosetta Stone? - Quora
---

I used *Pimsleur* and *Rosetta* when I started learning Chinese few
years ago. They were both very useful but I think they have quite
different purposes : *Pimsleur* is to get quickly some basic
*conversational* skills, *Rosetta Stone* is to approach a language and
understand its structure *by example*.\
\
*Pimsleur method* is very good to learn sentences and expressions to be
used directly. Each lesson is based on a dialog and there is no written
materials. Therefore, it is useful when you want to get quickly some
basic oral skills to help you in daily life - for example if you go in a
country with a language you don\'t know. The Pimsleur method is focused
on *conversation* i.e. listen, understand and answer simple sentences.
Many podcasts do quite the same thing online -  train you to
conversational skills. The learning environment is often 2-3 guys having
a discussion about a short piece of dialog and everything is about
getting to talk.\
\
*Rosetta Stone* is a more exploratory approach of a language and its
structure based on visual signs (images). It will not give you quick
conversation skills but will provide an understanding of how words come
together *in context*. I learnt with an old basic version of *Rosetta
Stone Chinese.* The principle was very simple: within 4 images, you
should chose which of them match a given sentence (written or spoken).
The software has now evolved in something more fancy that includes
achievements, progress monitoring, grammar, etc. but the core idea still
the same. It allows you to scrutiny carefully how sentences are
structured, how they relates to reality and to each other and how the
language finally comes together. All this is achieved by looking at many
examples (that is also why you won\'t find any translations in the
software).\
\
Some people will surely think : *\"Then Pimsleur is better, because it
is more hands-on and provide straight usable skills\".* It is true if
you just need to make your way through a language for very specific
purposes like short business travels or leisure. Then for me, the main
issues with Pimsleur are : 1) it is by nature illiterate (reading is
useful, even just to learn new stuff),  2) vocabulary is very limited,
3) there is no general approach of the language so it will not
facilitate the assimilation of new words and grammar you may encounter
out of the method.\
\
So at some point, if you don\'t want to spend the rest of your life
feeling like a 2-years old within other speakers, you may need something
else. Here *Rosetta Stone* comes in a handy and will allow you to make
some progresses with good structure, without having to go through deep
explanations and boring grammar. That is the good point when you learn
by example.\
\
To end this answer, here is my 2 cents about learning efficiency of
language : always remember that what really matter is to understand.
Depending on your personality or what you have to do, you may want to
speed up the process and focus only on getting to speak out as quickly
as possible. My personal experience is that when you don\'t understand
people, it can get really frustrating. You need time to get a grasp on
what is happening first, so don\'t throw yourself to quickly into
learning to write or this kind of stuff. Accept the (sad) fact that you
don\'t understand and everything will come in the right time.\
\
Listen, listen, listen. Read if you can. Talk to people, listen to them,
look at them speaking, find out common topics for real discussion, learn
vocabulary only to say something, not just to learn it (who cares about
what lesson 3 said?). And most important of all : enjoy the language,
its culture and its speakers ! Language is such a wonderful thing !
