---
date: '2015-01-29'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    How does the Internet startup scene in China
    differ when compared to that of Silicon Valley\'s? - Quora
---

There is a very large scope of startup cultures and styles in China.\
\
On one end of the scope, you have the guys inspired by SV. Those are
small teams of younger people trying to apply Lean Startup by the book.
They are very hardworking and as SV authors precognize they will try to
always please their VCs. They believe in the power of a \"tech scene\"
with numerous events and meetings. I will say that Shanghai is the place
for this and there is a very vibrant group making cool things there.
Most people in this community graduated from top universities in China
or abroad and are very eager to build interesting initiatives together.\
\
On the other end, you have more classical Chinese businesses that tends
to be very patriarchal in their management style, with larger teams and
fewer technical innovations. They mostly won\'t go to startup meetings
or this kind of things. Even if they do, nobody will welcome them
because they usually behave weird, giving around lots of business cards
in a very formal way. The \"cool\" guys in IT tends to dislike them as
those Chinese entrpreneurs are not part of the \"startup scene\" and
don\'t care really about it being sexy. Instead they are usually quite
low-profile, working on strange services with UX that may make you burst
out in laughing (90\'s BBS forums for middle-age women to share picsÂ  of
their kids ??).\
\
They play a very important role in the Chinese Internet though :
bringing Internet services to people that doesn\'t follow trends. Even
grannies are tech-savvy in China, they just need something working to
get started. This kind of businesses tends to be very profitable, even
if you won\'t see their IPOs anytime soon. This is because they don\'t
rely on financial valuation to earn money. For the most part, they have
been making money from day one also because there is no funding
available anyway. Their direct inspiration is not Zuckerberg or Jobs but
Alibaba\'s Jack Ma. They run their business family-style and are often
well acquainted with local officials. They may also have good links with
professors from smaller universities that can support them with staff of
students. Go to Hangzhou, Wuhan or Nanjing if you want to meet those
guys.\
\
You have also other players in the Chinese ecosystem like the big
historical web companies in Guangzhou or Beijing. Those have been
working closely with the central government for a long time and are key
names in China (like Sina or Tencent). They are also predators to small
startups as they won\'t hesitate to copy a growing service or app to
make it one of their feature. Unlike in the US, acquisition is not an
important business model for Chinese startups. You can not rely on
hypothetical opportunities in China. Product cycle is too short and laws
won\'t back you.\
\
They are other traits that may differ from SV especially regarding
hierarchy and work ethics. What you should do if you really want to
learn about all this is go to spend some time in China. To meet all
those different business cultures, I will recommend the city of
Shenzhen. While it is all about hardware and manufacturing, there is a
huge variety of styles and players here, from low-cost shanzhai knockoff
phones to state-of-the-art open-source hardware kickstarter startups and
even the Taiwanese, biggest hardware manufacturers on the planet so
far.\
\
This very diverse mix will give you a good account of the incredible
dynamics ongoing on China tech scene nowadays.
