---
date: '2015-07-20'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    How do ordinary Greeks see the Greece debt
    crisis? - Quora
---

For what I have seen during the last days, people are exhausted by the
constant changes and uncertainty in their daily life. Like
[Manolis](http://quora.com/profile/Manolis-Fanourgakis) has explained,
many families are living under threat over their job and the situation
of their loved ones. Life still ongoing and people are working hard to
keep their decency, but this is real hard times for the people of
Greece.\
\
They have seen things getting worst month after month during the last
5-6 years. While the political public life was full of up and downs,
austerity measures have progressively deepen the crisis and weaken
almost every corner of the economic life. People that do have a job
doesn\'t know if their companies will still operate in a week. Business
owners are talking about relocation, public services can not guarantee
to pay the wages at the end of the month.\
\
More than one out of two Greek of less than 30 y.o. is jobless, even
though many have diplomas from local or international universities.
Average salary for a graduate in Athens is around EUR500 (rent is EUR300
already). Even with a job, they can barely afford to rent their own
apartment. I met many people that still at their parents after 35 y.o,
despite very interesting profiles and work experiences. Starting a
business is almost impossible : there is no access to credit, the
administration is quasi dysfunctional, and there is not much market
anyway.\
\
Families and friends have strengthen links to make sure that everyone is
provided with the basics, but their destinies are completely opaque. No
one knows what will happen next and it creates an immense pressure. This
pressure urges people to take actions, especially the youngest that have
no foreseeable future to pursue whatsoever. A discussion about new forms
of currencies in Athens is not a blogpost about \"disruption and the
bitcoin\". You have actual group of people meeting every few days to
work on actual propositions of implementations for a national money
based on the blockchain. Idem for food distribution, media and of course
politics.\
\
They all know that it looks amateurish and disorganized but this is the
only answer in such a state of emergency. For instance, people are
well-aware that Siriza is unprepared for what they are trying to
achieve. The (pro-Siriza) father of an Athenian friend said : *\"They
are like a factory worker trying to make a computer program with a
hammer and a screwdriver.\"*Â  Fact is, they will need new ways to do
things in their daily life soon. They are questions to answer that never
have been posed before.\
\
In Athens, discussions about politics are literally everywhere, at any
newsstand, street corner or cafe. One important consequence of the
crisis is that people have radicalized. After years of manipulation from
all political sides, most have chosen already. Several people told me
how a wrong post on Facebook lead to a broken friendship and how
disputes were rampant in many families. There is a de facto gap between
the people that still have something to lose and those who have lost
almost everything already. This gap translates into vote and political
stances, and is flagrant while looking at the different neighborhoods of
the city.\
\
When you walk in certain districts of Athens like Omonia, it is obvious
that poverty has grown really bad. Following austerity measures, all
state support towards the weakest people have been stopped. Rehabs have
closed, pushing the junkies in the streets. Migrants keep arriving every
day from Middle East and Africa without any supervision at all. There is
people sleeping in parks, street corners and on the pavement. Some
social housing projects are even threaten by seizure of real estate to
repay the debt. Few blocks away, you have upper-middle class
entrepreneurs dining Italian fine food after buying a new Gucci for
their wifes. In the middle of this, there is a bunch of tourists asking
for directions to the Acropolis.\
\
The most incredible thing for me is how Greek people are struggling to
keep their days worth living through. Despite this critical situation,
you still have to wake up in the morning and after all, life is now. The
harder the life get, the more you need to enjoy what is left to you. In
such a situation, you need a large dose of pride (self-esteem),
dedication and a real strong sense of humor. Many people I have met in
Athens seem to have all these and will not let this debt crisis spoil
their days.\
\
**TL, DR** : Most people in Greece are suffering now. Everyone is tense
and tired of living in a state of uncertainty, with very few
perspectives. They know that there is no easy solution to all this, so
they are trying to get prepared to whatever is coming next. This
preparation involves finding ways to keep their life as normal as
possible despite the very bad state of affairs.
