---
date: '2015-02-16'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    Clément Renaud\'s answer to Will there be a Silicon Valley in China? -
    Quora
---

That is a non-question since Silicon valley is in California, but there
is certainly something huge happening in China right now, esp. in the
region of Shenzhen and the Pearl River Delta (PRD).\
\
The focus on IP in this article introduces a bias that miss the real
point about innovation in China. Design (and its protection by IP laws)
were core business values but are now quickly fading away as most of the
challenge has moved from \"ideation\" to \"execution\" (and delivery).
Apple, for instance, have proved that the real value lies in the
construction of a coherent supply chain, not only in the design of a new
product. If Apple were to open-source all its models tomorrow, they may
not even suffer so much from competition - expect from China maybe.\
\
Being the global maker, Chinese have benefit from a huge experience when
it comes to manufacturing and fast business execution. The ongoing
modernization of the industry in PRD will increase the quality of their
outcomes and management, pretty much like Japan did in the 90s. That
will place them in the position of world leaders to support new products
(i.e. innovation) with a real capacity to deliver behind promises.\
\
After the next bubble of web and social media will have burst in SV,
what will remain is hardware, robotics and biotech. China has an immense
advantage on hardware because the PRD region has the ability to support
the production of very advanced design faster than anyone by putting
together all sorts of complex supply chains. For biotech, the Beijing
Genomics Institute is in good position to define the standards for the
rest of the world. This may lead as well to the creation of huge
business ecosystem- like Stanford for the web. The headquarters of BGI
are in Shenzhen too.\
\
Shanghai and Beijing are driving the ecosystem so far because their
reputation and local governments have helped to build successful
communities and examples from China and abroad. Shenzhen is younger and
more low-profile. The local government is thousand times more friendly
and accessible here, plus you have Hong-Kong, its laws and its banks
just right at the door. Shenzhen is incredibly dynamic, even the already
breathtaking pace of Shanghai feels slow there. The whole place has the
unique energy of youth and what really pleased me each time I go there
is that nobody will get into big discourse about the \"tech scene\" etc.
Those people are actually trying hard to build their things without
talking too much about it. By looking at what have become some of
Shenzhen\'s Kickstarter projects I will say that this approach works a
blast.\
\
I was discussing recently with a lady in charge of innovation at Tencent
and she told me : *\"When you live in Middle China you think everything
is about finding capital for real estate and resources . Then you move
to Beijing or Shanghai and you discover that what matters really are
talented people. Finally, you go to Shenzhen and only then you realize
that what matters ultimately are processes.\"*  Clearly, the quite
horizontal and distributed structure of power relationships in Shenzhen
gives a crazy advantage over other places in China where hierarchy rules
every inch.\
\
I will add to this that China may actually not reproduce the model of
one single big tech hub. Instead, you have currently many hubs with
different specialties : e-commerce in Hangzhou, media in Beijing,
hardware in Shenzhen, etc. Even cities like Qingdao, Nanjing or Wuhan
are really worth following IMHO because they may emerge as strong
players in unexpected fields.
