---
date: '2015-08-27'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    What were some causes and effects of the
    French Revolution? - Quora
---

The causes were a decadent and absolutely corrupt ruling class, a
rampant misery in rural areas and the appearance of new liberal
discourses known as the philosophy of Enlightenment. The French state
was broke after spending all his money on the War of America (the future
territory of the USA) and tried to push a new tax, as bankers would not
lend money anymore. The year 1788 had a very tough winter, leading to a
food crisis and a strong increase in price of the bread all around the
country.\
\
All this fueled the already growing discontent of the local leaders in
the French provinces. To calm things down, the king Louis the 16th
called a big congress with all provinces representatives in Paris. It
was host in early 1789, gathering all the young politicians and
ideologists from the time. Eventually, it turned into what is today
known as the French Revolution.Â \
\
The main effect of this revolution was to establish basis for Napoleon
to take the seat 10 years later. After destroying the kingdom, the
revolutionaries spent the next years fighting each other. The most
radical ones took over and imposed several years of of intense
repression called the Terror - when the well-known guillotine was used.
They went on \"liberation wars\" with several bordering countries that
still had a king and were waiting to attack them anyway. On November 9th
1799, one of the military commandant of the revolution army named
Napoleon took over during a coup in Paris with his troops from the Egypt
and Italy campaign. 5 years later, and only 15 years after the
revolution, he was sacred first Emperor of the French by the pope in
Notre-Dame de Paris.
