---
date: '2017-01-17'
source: quora
title: |
    Cl√©ment Renaud\'s answer to Should social science be more
    solution-oriented? - Quora
---

The idea of applied research in social sciences is of great interest.
Social sciences will indeed benefit from reaching new audiences and
sometimes switch focus. Then, the approach and discussion in this
article ttly falls short IMO

\"Solution-oriented social science\" was at the origin of social
sciences itself and that is exactly why a \"critical social science\"
has develop at some point. I find quite funny that the paper is based on
a comparison with physics and theoretical \"incoherency\" of papers
about spread of ideas.

This echoes the current tendency of defining \"applied social sciences\"
by the use of methods imported from the field of physics to social
facts. The most emblematic are of course network studies and the studies
of complex systems, but to a larger extent most of the methods in
digital humanities rely on tools and algorithms created for the study of
matter.

I am really enthusiastic about these new methods but we still need to
bridge them with traditional apparatus of social sciences, that is field
observations and existing theoretical frameworks. The problem often is
that new theories are developed to fit these new methods, but there is
very few assessments of their validity - like this concept of \"social
contagion\" mentioned in the paper, which bypass a century of sociology
and anthropology.

There is much constructive debate on possible application of social
sciences ongoing those days, esp in the field of geography and urban
studies (see the 2011 debate about ANT and urban assemblage in City for
instance). This is partly because those disciplines have a very
practical object to study (cities, land, etc). Sociology is really
suffering in the post-Vincennes world of rhizomes.

The main problem IMHO is twofold 1) academic sectarianism and the
necessity of showing \"results\" prevents scholars from building useful
methods 2) there is a total lack of institutions and pipelines for the
transfer of these methods - and further findings - to other
organizations.

Very few wants to take the painful task of building methodology
seriously. Many scholars prefer to run into endless ramble of low-end
and super verbose theory. It usually takes outsiders to bring renewal to
methods in social sciences (like the physicists and their networks).

Then, once you have built those new methods to decipher social facts,
you need to teach them, train people and provide tools so it can be
applied to all sort of problems, and eventually provides support for new
organizations, decisions or operations - or anything else for that
matter.

One of the only place that have taken all those questions seriously is
the field of design. It produces tons of interesting and
less-interesting methods, tools and frameworks. The problem is that, as
it has now be identified as an academic discipline, it will going to
follow the same destiny : go vertical into its own re-re-re-definition
and miss the great synergy to be found in other disciplines.

There is more and more design plug-ins into institutions that takes the
role of doing interdisciplinary and applied research (like the Medialab
and others). I think those are all very inspiring, much more than doing
\"problem-solving social sciences\", which is just a poor trick. The sad
thing is that they still very elite and not widespread at this stage.

We need more of those \"applied social sciences\" spaces. If anyone is
eager to build one, just get in touch !
