---
date: '2018-08-22'
source: quora
title: |
    Cl√©ment Renaud\'s answer to Why is opacity such an important feature of
    the Chinese business world and society? - Quora
---

Secrecy in China is not only in business, but also in everyday
relationships. Based on my experience, most Chinese people deeply
distrust any part of their direct environment. Nothing or nobody can be
trusted, ever - being law, state or even family members. To stay alive
in such world, you have to hold onto your secrets, create or maintain
information assimetry to gain advantages.

My understanding is that secrecy is the normal way for business to
operate all over the planet, but in China it elevates to dramatic
proportion. The generation that went through the cultural revolution saw
half of the population going against another, often inside their own
families. When that was done, the market opened up and everybody went
against each other again but this time to extract money from one
another.

This traumatic experience is still vivid everyday in the way the country
and businesses are managed. To me, this visceral mistrust is part of
what make Chinese people super sharp in business, creating the
adrenaline where the country thrive in. They have an uncanny ability to
just anticipate the most twisted human scenarios. Sadly, it is also what
makes Chinese people life miserable, lost in endless competition and
loneliness.

Regarding the article linked in the question, this "open by default" and
employee letter is just some poor Google PR, already disastrous in China
in the past and still going. Of course negociations between large
corporation and government happened behind closed doors. Why will you
expect otherwise?
