---
date: '2018-08-31'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    Cl√©ment Renaud\'s answer to What is a smart entry strategy for a
    westerner who wants to live and work in China? - Quora
---

If you are serious about it, to enter China is a major investment. It
will take you at least several years and will change you forever. And
there is one rule : the more you stay, the more the competition with
local Chinese will intensify.

To be a westerner confers a temporary advantage that may get you hired,
but accessing higher and stable functions of society is much more
complicated. There seems to be a virtually unlimited supply of talented
Chinese people that have been to the best schools, speak multiple
languages, and have extended connections in China - or even Parti
membership.

That being said, here are my tips.

If you want to work for a foreign company, just reach out for them
online or show up at their office. Most foreigners get homesick, tired
or scared for their babies after some time, so there is a large
turnover. If your visa allow you to wait long enough, you will end up
finding some work.

If you want to understand more about Chinese society, you will first
need to learn the language and get some mastery of the local culture. To
understand what is happening around you, you need exposure to the daily
life of Chinese people. My advice will be to settle in a small city, far
from the coast. Life will be cheap so you have time to observe, learn,
discuss with people and travel around.

If you want to start a business in China, you will need to make solid
friends and connections. The problem here is that most important
organisations are unavailable to foreigners. For instance, universities
in China have separated programs for foreigners. You can get a job at a
Chinese company, but smaller ones can not hire foreigners and major ones
usually forbids it. Your best chance is to build on existing networks of
foreigners, meet returnees that are more open to help foreigners,
organise events, go to meetings, treat people dinners, i.e. spend time
and money to find some support.

One good strategy will be to do all these three things. Go to work for a
foreign company in a smaller city, then you can move to a bigger, more
foreigner-friendly place to develop your own business.

Also don't think that to marry will provide any help - apart from the
support of your loving spouse. Family is not an "entry strategy". I have
seen people trying that and their life ended up being miserable. Please
don't.

Hope it helps!
