---
date: '2018-08-23'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    Cl√©ment Renaud\'s answer to What made China think that the US would not
    have a strong reaction to its rise of China narrative? - Quora
---

Beijing started to believe in its own lies.

The background narrative of "China rising again" is plain nationalism.
The older generations of leaders used nationalism to bring crowd
together but they knew that "China" could not win any battles - only
strategists and soldiers could. Younger generations were raised into the
ambiant "China is the greatest country in human history" discourse and
took it for granted.

Nationalism is a political strategy that consists of presenting the
concept of nation to your emotions, usually pride, and link it to the
thing you love the most: your home and family. It addresses directly to
the guts, making it a very powerful tool to rally people.

This is harmless until people start to take it seriously. Once this
happens, they start to think that they have some intrinsic advantage by
just being themselves, part of the nation. Their reasoning now suffer
from a major bias : thinking they possess an always-winning asset that
will bring victory - their nation supposedly *deserving* to win.

That usually goes down until they realise that the political concept of
nation solve a particular set of problems (building up common ownership
and self-esteem in a territory), but does not confer any other real
advantages. Plus, it alienates all your neighbours - which never ends
well if I may.

For years, the CCP has relied on nationalism to mitigate critical
domestic issues. What was a game became the game, instilling a sense of
pride in the administration that ended up being blindsided. Any wise
person will tell you that claims of greatness just bring you that far.
While Beijing was bragging, the Chinese kept on working hard to have a
better life. No Chinese outside a few brainwashed CCP officials ever
believed in the "China dream". Now it\'s time for them to change tune
and get back to some solid work because there is a huge mess coming
ahead.
