---
date: '2018-02-13'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    Is China growing because it has a growth
    mindset, while the US is closing up and becoming isolationist because it
    has a scarcity mindset?
---

It is the other way around. Most Chinese people actually have a
"scarcity mindset" that allow them to grow, while the US is stuck in a
"growth mindset" from the 50s instead of focusing on today's issue of
bringing stability.

The whole Chinese population went through a lot in the last 50 years and
is very aware that we live in a world of limited resources. This
scarcity mindset applies not only to material (sparing instead of
spending) but also to relationships. Low trust between Chinese people
lead to the creation of all sort of mechanisms (including technology)
that increase the resiliency of the society as a whole. As it was almost
inexistant before, we can witness it developing (it's fascinating). For
organisms and human organisations, growing is not a will but the result
of the fact they are alive - and young. After growing very fast for a
while, organisms and organisations gain stability (homeostasis) before
transforming into something else (we call it death). Growing is a very
dangerous period and that is why parenting exists.

I don't know much about the US, but it looks to me that it does not
possess the "scarcity mindset" to develop the resiliency required for
such a large group to keep growing. Society is divided and not many
people seem ready to make concessions. Instead of focusing solving the
real problems to bring more stability, the overarching interest is to
keep growing as fast as possible. For instance, the sharing economy is
just concentrating capital faster without sharing any non-marginal
benefit with the population. Vertical dynamics are so strong that they
even substitute to horizontal ones without anyone intervening. Seems
like everyone is too busy competing for a place of leader that is long
gone, so they don't see the riots coming. This whole "growth mindset"is
fostering internal competition on completely unfair basis which lead to
the actual isolationism - and possibly catastrophe.
