---
date: '2018-08-28'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    What is the relationship like between China
    and France?
---

France was one of the first Western country to recognise the People
Republic of China. The General de Gaulle considered Mao as a fellow
fighter in the war against the Axis and sent an ambassador to China as
soon as he was elected.

Since then, both country have considered their relationships as
"friendly". French companies have been making very good money in the
Chinese market for the last decades (luxury, cosmetics, aeronautics,
etc). China has been exported tons of his products to France. Paris also
have the largest Chinese community in Europe.

Sarkozy made some ridiculous faux-pas in 2008 but all went back to
normal quickly. The idiot claimed that he will boycott the Olympics
ceremony over Tibet, following Merkel announcing something similar.
Beijing warned him that he was "hurting their feelings". They threaten
to retaliate on trade. Some Carrefour supermarkets got attacked. The
European Council got angry on him. He stuttered some excuses, took a
plane and went to attend the ceremony. Besides achieving nothing and
tarnishing the credibility of French diplomacy even more, he helped
China to prove once again how easy it was to divide Europe.

Macron knows better and has been grooming Xi quite well, offering him a
horse from his own personal guard[\[1\]](#OQAxB)as a payback for
involving his wife[\[2\]](#FEWBb) in the cuteness powerhouse that is
China's panda politics[\[3\]](#itFoW).

In many regards, both countries share a lot. Their political traditions
are a long story of inflated administration headed by omnipotent
leaders. But more important, most problems can be solved by a good meal.
It just have to look good and taste fabulous.

Footnotes

[\[1\]](#cite-OQAxB)[Vésuve de Brekka -
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%A9suve_de_Brekka)

[\[2\]](#cite-FEWBb)[Brigitte Macron a baptisé le bébé panda prêté par
la Chine «Yuan
Meng»](http://www.lefigaro.fr/politique/le-scan/2017/12/04/25001-20171204ARTFIG00196-brigitte-macron-a-baptise-le-bebe-panda-prete-par-la-chine-yuan-meng.php)

[\[3\]](#cite-itFoW)[Panda diplomacy -
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panda_diplomacy#Pandas_in_Chinese_politics)
