---
date: '2018-07-16'
source: quora
language: en
title: |
    What are the special advantages which
    Chinese Internet companies in China have compared to Internet companies
    in other countries?
---

Apart from the political context that other answers have mentioned,
Internet companies benefit from the existence of a very large amount of
unsolved and pressing problems that needs to be adressed in the country.

Comparatively, many important issues that required tech in the West were
solved with pre-Internet solutions. A good example is the payment
system. In the West, cash was largely replaced by chip cards decades
ago. In China, the relatively low penetration of cards allowed Internet
companies to address cash control directly with their own Internet-based
solutions.

Besides the quantity of issues that requires attention, what makes
China's problems so interesting for Internet companies is two things :
1) they are shared by very diverse kind of people and 2) most of these
people are on the move.

The constant movement of people in China requires communication
solutions. Mobile phones are known as the "first urban purchase" for any
migrant in China. The adoption of Internet technology has been largely
driven by the need to stay in touch with remote family members or
friends. What better opportunity for internet companies than a billion
people needing to communicate?

Chinese Internet companies have the advantage of having to support
highly diverse and versatile life experiences. One thing that makes
Chinese companies like Tencent stand out from their western counterparts
is that they serve a billion of totally diverse people, from almost
illiterate farmers in remote mountains to the highest spheres of China's
urban elite. In comparison, Facebook serves a billion users that is
mostly composed of 25-40 years old urbans from main cities over the
world. Tencent users may actually look much more diverse if you look at
their socio economical extraction, despite a (very) relative cultural
homogeneity.

This focus on serving "vertical" segment of population - instead of a
more "horizontal" approach of user development prefered in Western
startups - allow Chinese Internet companies to define and attack larger
problems. By doing so, they create a path for their tech to become not
only a daily habit but an important constituant of social stability -
and therefore make themselves irreplaceable. That is why internet
companies in China are so closely tied to the government : they
recognize and embrace their role as builders of the key infrastructures
of the new Chinese society.

Finally, one thing often considered as a disadvantage for Internet
companies is that their products are too localised - "too Chinese".
Western commentators love to state that most Chinese Internet tech is
unfit to export, because it was not "globally designed". I believe that
this is largely a fallacy. Main reason for an existing tech to be
adopted is because 1) it is available at a cost you can afford and 2) it
already solves a problem similar to the one you are having.

For a long time, many countries have followed the path of development of
the USA. Issues they were encountering were often framed as similar to
the ones identified in the USA, driving the adoption of US solutions
(yes, I am talking about Europe, Philippines, etc). The transformation
of China during the last decades has required tech companies to walk
unique paths and develop entirely new tech solutions to face entirely
new problems.

As more countries will try to reproduce China\'s experience (with
incentives from large Chinese investment programs), they will encounter
difficulties and issues closer to what China has faced, leading them to
adopt similar technologies and policies. For the Internet, it will
include copying GFW, data regulations, payment and credit systems, trust
systems, hi tech industrial clusters, etc. The Chinese companies have
already became references for many in the developing world, and this
tendency will only increase as the USA continue to shift from a model
that should be followed to one that needs to be avoided.

To sum it up, Chinese Internet companies have the incredible advantage
of being part of today China's historical momentum, and contribute to
shape one of the largest and most transformative experience on earth at
the time of this writing.
